				  Revenant
			       EDITOR.TXT File
		         (C) 1999 Eidos Interactive

To start the Revenant Editor follow the instructions listed below:

1) Run the launcher from your game directory.

2) Select the "Run Revenant" option from the launcher window.

3) Click on the "advanced options" button.

4) Mark the checkbox "start in editor".

5) Click on the "Start Game" button. (Note: if you get an error message, run in primary display mode)

6) The editor window should open up after the game loads. You cannot modify the main game modules so 
you will need to create a new one.

7) In the editor, [type: createmodule "nameofmodule" single] and press enter. If you want to make a multiplayer module
you must [type: createmodule "nameofmodule" multi] and press enter.

8) You will then need to set your module to be the active module. In the editor [type: setcurmodule "nameofmodule"]

9) Now you need to set up the level you want to build. [Type: level 100] and press enter. 100 is the number of the level we 
are using in this example. You can use any level # you want.

10) Go to a good starting point in the level. [Type: map 10000 10000 16] and press enter. 

11) You will need bright lighting while building levels so [type: amb 50] to turn the ambient lighting value up. 
You can adjust these values later when you are done building.

12) To build maps you select objects from the list on the lower right hand side of the editor window. Left click on the
object you want to place and left click again in the map window to place it. When you are done with placing the tile, 
right click to deselect it. For more information on building maps, check out http://revenantqs.telefragged.com/index.shtml.

12) When you want to save your work, [type: save map] and the map will be saved to your map directory in your module folder.

13) You are now ready to start building levels with the Revenant editor. For more detailed information about the editor,
building maps, and modifying game files, please go to http://revenantqs.telefragged.com/index.shtml


Editor Tips:

1) Save your work often. There's nothing worse than losing hours of map work because you forgot to save your progress.

2) NEVER build above Z-height 1000. Walkmap flags will stop functioning above this height.

3) You cannot build walkable areas directly on top of other walkable areas. 

