                    Revenent Coop Multiplayer Information
                  Copyright (C) 2000 Cinematix Studios, Inc. 

Revenant version 1.2 includes new functionality to provide module builders
with the ability to create true MUD style multiplayer coop levels.  These
modules can be set to run in 'dedicated' mode, and allow users to log in
and play a persistent character on that server.

Cinematix has completely rebuilt the script engine to allow for coop play.  
Unfortunately this has necessarily lead to a few bugs cropping up in the 
single player game, and we apologize for this.  Revenant is a large game
with many components, and it is a real task to get them to all work together
correctly sometimes.

The multiplayer system uses the multiplayer 'party' mechanism to set up 
player parties.  One a party with a group of characters has been created, the
various multiplayer commands work with the party of the player which uses or
activates a script.  See the game documentation for creating parties in 
multiplayer mode for instructions on how to create a party. 

Revenant coop Multiplayer
-------------------------

Revenant version 1.2 and above support true multiplayer coop scripting and coop
play.  The original revenant MP system was intended to allow multi user coop
play with a reasonably large number of simultaneous users.  This explains why
the original 'advanced' coop screens provided support for the maintenance of
user 'Names' and 'Passwords', along with a user information system to allow game
hosts to check the real name, email, and other information for a user before
accepting him onto his system.

Logging on to an existing server with an existing account..

In the Revenant Advanced MP interface, each character listed in the 'character'
panel has a name and password.  This name and password is used when submitting
the player to a host game to log into the game.  When logging into an existing
game, the player's information is transmitted to the game, where the name and
password are matched to a currently 'OFFLINE' player in that games player list.

If the player matches one of the offline players, the information for that OFFLINE
player is retransmitted back to the client.  The client then uses this 'host' copy
of his player to play the game.  Cheating is prevented by constant hash value
checks of inventory and stats to make sure that the client and host player match.
When logging on to an existing game with an existing character, the client's 
character is replaced by the character on the host, which means that the client's
inventory, stats, etc. will not be used.   

Submitting a new player to a server..

In Revenant Advanced MP, hosts may set up various game parameters which control
how New players are added to the game.  These are 'open' games, where any new
player is automatically added to the game, New Player Only, where only level 1
players with no inventory items are allowed in as new players, or 'Host Approve'
where all new players are allowed in, but the player can not actually begin 
playing the game until the host 'enables' that character to play.

Once a player has sucessfully entered the game, his player will remain in the 
player list of the game, even if he logs out of the game.  The host system will
save his current location, equipment, and all other aspects of his status within
the game.   When he logs back in, he will return to the same spot that he left
when he was last playing.   When a player logs off, his character is removed from
the game map, and he will not be visible to other players on the server except as
a 'grayed' character entry in the character list.

Creating parties..

Revenant MP supports the creation of player parties.  Parties are created in the
MP in game screen by typing in an existing party name with the correct party password,
then clicking the 'New' button to create a new party, or the 'Join' button to join
an existing party.  Once in a party, your chat messages will default to only your
party members.  You can transmit your parties password to desired party mates by using
ICQ, email, or in game whispering.

Multplayer Chat..

The multplayer chat system has the following special chat commands..  These commands
are indicated by a special character at the beginning of the chat line..

Broadcast to all "!"

	Broadcasts chat message to all players on server.

	Example:

	!Hey, what's the deal with this server?


Broadcast only to server "$"

	Broadcasts chat message to host of game only.  Host page.

	Example:

	$Hey host.. what's the deal with this server?
	
Whisper to player "/"

	Whispers chat line only to specific player.  ":" must be placed immediately after
	player name.
	
	Example:
	
	/Balrog: Join our party, our password is SPOON


Dedicated Server Mode..

Revenant 1.2 and above includes a Dedidcated Server mode.  In this mode, the host of the
game can run Revenant in the background on a system.  Revenant will unload it's graphics
system files, and run quietly in the background.  This greatly reduces the system load
to run revenant (though it still requires some system resources), and speeds up gameplay
for all client players.

Any multiplayer game can be run in dedicated server mode by clicking on the 'dedicated' 
button in the multiplayer interface.  Revenant is then shrunk down to a toolbar icon, the
game graphics are unloaded, and Revenant will be running in dedicated mode.  You can then
check on the current users, or view the current chat in the Windows multitabbed dedicated
server panel (available from the toolbar).  

You can reenter full mode at any time from the server panel.

Running A MUD Server..

To run a Revenant MUD server, you must have your MODULE.DEF file marked as GAMEMOD_MUD,
and not GAMEMOD_COOP.  In deathmatch mode, all players which leave the game are deleted 
from the player list.   In MUD mode, all players which leave the game are left in the
player list and marked as OFFLINE.  This allows players to reenter the game by using the
correct player name and password, and continue their 'quest'.

There are several limitations to Revenant MUD games.  First.. a Revenant server requires
a reasonable amount of bandwidth.  A 56k modem will probably not suffice to set up a 
Revenant server.  Second.. there are still missing aspects to the scripting system to 
provide full support for Ultima Online style play.  There is no economy, and there is no
facilities for party local, or player local game states.  All game states are tied to
the module itself.   That being said, Revenant, even with all of its limitations, is
still the only Diablo style game that can edited at a very deep level, and Run online 
like an Ultima online style server.  Perhaps in the future we'll see other games which
will provide the same facilities, but until then..

If you are interested in making your own Revenant online worlds, and providing your own
2D or 3D graphics for these worlds, check out the documentation on file formats, tools,
and tutorials on how to create revenant modules.  These are available online at 
www.cinematix.com, or www.revenantqs.com.

Thanks...

The Revenant Team at Cinematix.


New script object names for Coop MUD mode in 1.2
------------------------------------------------

PARTY objects
-------------

Description: Allows you to access party members by number

Example:

	party1.say "I'm the first member in the party of the guy using this object"

	party3.say "And I'm the third member"

Remarks:

The party object name allows you to have the various members of the user of the
current scripts party do various things.

CURRENT object
--------------

Description: The current object set by the 'setcurrent' command

Example:

	party1.setcurrent		// Set party member 1 as 'current'
	current.say "Hi, I'm player 1"

Remarks:

The current object is set using the 'setcurrent' command (see below), and can be
used to set a current player in a script.

PLAYER object
-------------

Description: The player on the current system

Example:

	player.say "This will always be said by the host machine player"

Remarks:

The 'player' object is used in all single player scripts to indicate the 'player'
of the game.  In multiplayer, since all scripts run on the host, this is pretty much
the same thing as saying the 'host' player.   Scripts that need the current 'user'
of the script to do something should use the 'user' object instead.  

Note: Most of the single player scritps in the Ahkuilon Coop module were converted
by pretty much doing a search and replace for 'player.' and 'Locke.' to 'user.'

USER object
-----------

Description: The general purpose 'user' of this script object

Example:

	user.say "The player who initiated this script will say this line"

Remarks:

The 'user' object should be used almost universally in all scripts when 
referring to the 'player' that caused the script to run (i.e. used an object,
activated a cube or proximity trigger, or initiated a dialog script).   The
'user' object refers to the user of the script.   In single player modules where
the 'player.' object or 'Locke.' is used, you must replace these with 'user.' to 
make the module multiplayer coop operational.

New script Commands for Coop MUD mode in 1.2
--------------------------------------------

The following commands were added to the 1.2 multiplayer system.  The script system
in the single player game works as is, but there were several commands added to allow
additional mp functionality.

Please note that in the examples.. the object name "user" is a new script keyword used 
to indicate the player that initiated the current script.  In the old single player 
scripts, the user player was denoted as "player" (i.e. player.say "Hello").  "player" 
now refers to the player on the current machine, while "user" refers to the actual 
user of the script.  In the commands below where "user" is used for party commands, 
the implied party is the "user"'s party.

GROUPINRANGE
------------

Description: Checks to see if party members are within range of scripted event

Syntax: GROUPINRANGE range

Example:

	user.groupinrange 1000	// The current script 'user's party..
	begin
	  say "Everybody's here, ok lets go"
	end
	else
	begin
	  say "Wait a second.. we're missing somebody in our party"
	end

Remarks:

The groupinrange command allows you to execute a script only if all the members
of a party are within the given range.  This allows the module designer to force
all party members to progress to a certain point before beginning a scripted 
sequence.


HASPLAYER
---------

Decription: Checks to see if current party has character of given class

Syntax: HASCLASS name_or_classname

Example:

	user.hasclass "Revenant"  // The current script 'user's party..
	begin
	  say "Ok, lets get going"
	end
	else
	begin
	  say "You must have a Revenant in your party to play this module"
	end

	user.hasclass "Bill"
	begin
	  say "Hi bill.. glad to have you in our party"
	end
	else
	begin
	  say "You must have a player named Bill in your party"
	end


Remarks:

Allows a script to check to see if a given party has a member of this particular class or name.
This should usually be done in the lobby area of a module (the town, etc.) so that
the designer can design missions which assume that parties include characters of 
certain classes or players with certain names.

HASLEVEL
--------

Description: Checks to see if all party members have at least a minumum experience level

Syntax: HASLEVEL minlevel

Example:

	user.haslevel 10     // The current script 'user's party..
	begin
	  say "Ok, lets get going"
	end
	else
	begin
	  say "All party members must be level 10 to open go here"
	end

Remarks:

Allows a script to check to see if all party members have enough experience.
This should usually be done in the lobby area of a module (the town, etc.) so that
the designer can design missions which assume that parties include characters have
enough experience for this area.


HASNUMPLAYERS
-------------

Description: Checks to see if all party members have at least a minumum experience level

Syntax: HASNUMPLAYERS min max

Example:

	user.hasnumplayers 2 6    // The current script 'user's party..
	begin
	  say "Ok, you've got enough people, lets get going"
	end
	else
	begin
	  say "There needs to be between two to six players in your party"
	end

Remarks:

Allows a script to check to see if a party has too many or too few players.
This should usually be done in the lobby area of a module (the town, etc.) so that
the designer can design missions which assume that parties have enough players to
play through the given area.


GROUPGOTO
---------

Description: Causes all party members to go to a given position

Syntax: GROUPGOTO x1 y1 x2 y2 x3 y3 x4 y4... 

Example:

	// Causes group to go to the following 4 locations
	user.groupgoto 200 520 200 540 100 220 300 550

Remarks:

The groupgoto command causes the members of a party to walk from their current
locations to the given positions listed in the command.  If there are more party
members than positions in the command, more than one party member will try to go
to the same position (and stop when they bump into eachother).  Try to include
more than enough positions for any size party.. just in case.

GROUPPOS
--------

Description: Sets the position of all party members

Syntax: GROUPPOS level x1 y1 x2 y2 x3 y3 x4 y4...

Example:

	// Causes player's in 'user's party to go to the following 4 locations
	user.grouppos 1 200 520 200 540 100 220 300 550

Description:

The grouppos command causes the members of a party to be placed on the given level
at the given positions listed in the command.  If there are more party
members than positions in the command, more than one party member will be positioned
in the same place.  Try to include more than enough positions for any size party.. 
just in case.


GROUPFACE
---------

Description: Sets the facing of all party members

Syntax: GROUPFACE f1 f2 f3 f4...

Example:

	// Causes player's in 'user's party to face the following 5 directions
	user.groupface 50 72 129 200 59

Remarks:

The grouppos command causes the members of a party to face the given directions listed
in the command.  If there are more party members than positions in the command the 
additional party members will face in the same direction as the others.


SETCURRENT
----------

Description: Sets the current character

Syntax: SETCURRENT name_or_classname_or_playerclass

Example:

	setcurrent "Bill"		// Sets the 'current' object to bill
	current.say "Hi my name is bill"

	setcurrent "Revenant"	// Sets the 'current' object to the closest Revenant player
	current.say "Hi I'm a revenant"

	setcurrent "Ogrok"		// Sets the 'current' object to the closest Ogrok
	current.say "Grrr"
	

Remarks:

The setcurrent command sets the script object 'current' to an object you select.
You may then use the 'current' object in various script statements for which you
would normally use an object name.  This allows you to select a party member with
a given name or class, or a nearby monster, as a target for your script.


JUMPCLASS
---------

Description: Jumps to a label with the name of the current characters class

Syntax: <object>.JUMPCLASS

Example:

	user.jumpclass			// Jumps to the class of the user in the script

	:Revenant
	say "I'm a revenant"
	jump end

	:Veteran
	say "I'm a veteran"

	:Shaman
	say "I'm a shaman"

	:Assasin
	say "I'm an assasin"

	:end
	say "The end

Remarks:

The jumpclass command jumps to the label in a script that matches the class of the
given player.  This allows you to write scripts specifically for players of specific
classes.


JUMPNAME
--------

Description: Jumps to a label with the name of the current character

Syntax: <object>.JUMPNAME

Example:

	user.jumpname			// Jumps to the class of the user in the script

	:Bill
	say "I'm a Bill"
	jump end

	:FredTheGreat
	say "I'm Fred The Great (gets rid of spaces)"

	:end
	say "The end

Remarks:

The jumpname command jumps to the label in a script that matches the name of the
given player.  This allows you to write scripts specifically for players with 
specific names.


TIMELIMIT
---------

Description: Sets a time limit on the given script

Syntax: TIMELIMIT time

Example:

	timelimit 5m		// Five minute limit for script

Remarks:

This allows you to set a maximum time limit for a given script.  After this period, 
the script will automatically exit, allowing other players to use the object the
script is running for.  This prevents inactive players from preventing others from
accessing scripts, and prevents script errors from stopping the server.  Numbers can
be in frames at 24fps, seconds with an s at the end (i.e. "5s" is five seconds), or 
minutes with an m at the end (i.e. "5m" is five minutes). 

Note: Whenever the user responds to a dialog choice, the time limit is reset to it's
maximum value.  This allows interactive scripts to run to their conclusion without
being interrupted unecessarily.

BUSYSAY
-------

Description: Sets the dialog response when character is busy

Syntax: BUSYSAY sayid or "saystring"

Example:

	busysay IV2971E
	busysay "I'm busy with another player right now, come back later!"

Remarks:

Sets the dialog an NPC will say when he is busy serving another player.  If a
player comes up and attempts to interrupt the transaction of another player, this
dialog line will be displayed.  Players must wait for the current player to finish
his transaction before they can talk to this player.  This command should be placed
at the beginning of the script of an NPC, before it begins talking to the player it
is serving.


BUSYMSG
-------

Description: Sets the message response when a usable object is busy

Syntax: BUSYMSG sayid or "saystring"

Example:

	busymsg IV2971E
	busymsg "Somebody is using this door right now"

Remarks:

Sets the message that will be displayed in the message area of the screen when a
player attempts to use an object or do a script which another player is currently
using or doing.  Players must wait for the current player to finish with this object
or script before they can use it.   This command should be placed at the beginning of
a script before any other script commands.
 