                              Revenant Revision File
                              ----------------------

Command Line Options
--------------------

NOQUICKLOAD - Prevents imagery headers from being loaded from IMAGERY.DAT file.

	By default, the game will load all its tile information from a file called 
	IMAGERY.DAT in the game directory.  This stores the general information about
	all the tiles, characters, effects, etc. in the game map.  If NOQUICKLOAD is
	specified, the game will search through the imagery sub directories, and 
	query each file for its basic information before loading.  This is somewhat
	slower, but safer when the game graphics are constantly changing and new imagery
	is being created.

NOPRELOADSECTORS - Causes map sector caching to be disabled.

	By default, when the character enters a game map, the game will load all map
	sectors (small screen sized chunks of the game map) surrounding the character
	(including all the tiles and other graphics within those sectors) up before
	the game starts.  Also, when the character reaches the edge of the cached 
	sector area, the game will pause for a moment, and reload a new set of sectors
	surrounding the character at the new position.

	This caching prevents the game from reading from the HD for imagery while
	the character is moving, but it does cause the game to pause when it reloads
	a new cache.  Without PRELOADSECTORS, the game constantly loads a small 
	chunk of graphics as the character moves, causing the character to slightly
	pause when he moves one screenlength.  On computers with fast HD's, and 
	lots of memory, you may want to turn PRELOADSECTORS off.

	Note: in current rev, game will still pause when 3D based object come within
	range of character.  This is being looked into.

PRELOADSIZE=x - Sets the radius of the sector cache from the characters position.

	This is the number of sectors in each direction that the system will attempt
	to cache when the character moves to a new location (see above).  A value
	of 1 will cause the sytem to cache 4 sectors (1 sector away from char in 
	each direction).  A value of 3 will cache a 6x6 block (or 36 sectors). Obviously, 
	the greater the number, the longer the cache will take to load, and the more 
	memory it will use.

CHUNKCACHESIZE=x - Sets the size of the tile chunk cache.

	Tiles in the game are stored as compressed 32x32 chunks.  The game stores both
	16 bit zbuffer and 16 bit graphics for each chunk as compressed 8 bit palettized
	bitmaps using a modified public domain LH algorithm.  In order to draw to the
	screen, the 32x32 chunks must be decompressed and then blitted to the screen. 
	The system stores a chache of decompressed chunks so it doesn't have to
	constantly decompress the same chunk over and over again.  The size of this
	cache affects scroll speed to a large degree.  Sizes of 4MB-12MB are reasonable.
	Smaller caches greatly affect scroll speed, while caches larger than 12MB don't
	seem to make things go too much faster.

DEBUG - Cinematix debug mode

	Sets various system components to run in debug mode so that the programmers
	can more easily spot problems.  This flag is not useful for end users.

FORCE15BIT - Forces game to run in 15 bits per pixel mode
FORCE16BIT - Forces game to run in 16 bits per pixel mode

	Revenant runs in DirectX 16 bits per pixel display modes.  There are two 
	common pixel layouts for these modes: 5 red 5 green 5 blue (15 bit mode)
	or 5 red 6 green 5 blue (16 bit mode).  The game automatically detects
	the proper pixel format by querying the pixel format through DirectX.  
	Several video cards, however, do not correctly report the pixel format
	for their video modes, so these command line options allow the user to
	force the game to run in a particular mode.  If you notice that the many
	of the colors in the game are bright cyan, or the red and green colors
	are off, try using one of these options to force the video mode to either
	15 or 16 bit mode.

EDITOR - Begin game in the integrated game editor

	This option causes the game to begin in the integrated game editor.  The
	game editor is where all map editing, game settings, etc. are stored.
	The game editor will not allow you to edit save game information, and
	edited game maps will not work with standard save games (cheater!).  You
	may however experiment with your own maps and levels using the functions
	of the editor.  Editor documentation will be available on the Cinematix
	web site at www.cinematix.com.

WINDOWED - Runs the game in a window

	This causes the game to appear in a standard Microsoft Windows window that
	can be moved and scaled.  Pressing Alt-Spacebar in the game will also
	cause the game to be displayed in a window, or back to full screen.

BORDERLESS - Causes the game window to be borderless

	When in windowed mode, the game will not have any borders.

NOWIDE - Prevents the game from using wider than requested video buffers

	On the Permidia I card, no video surfaces can be less than 640 pixel wide.
	Revenant uses several video surfaces to support background buffers, 
	refesh buffers, etc.  If each of these surfaces are forced to be 640 pixel
	wide instead of their normal width, the game may run out of video memory on
	4MB cards.  Setting this option causes the game to allocate these surfaces 
	in system memory instead of memory on the video card.

FULLSCREEN - Causes game to start in fullscreen mode

	The game will begin without any border or interface stuff obscuring the 
	main screen (fullscreen mode).

MONITOR=x - Causes the game to use a particular monitor in a multimonitor system

	On a multimonitor system, the game can be set to run on a particular monitor
	by using the number of the monitor.

GAMESPEED=x - Causes various game options to be enabled/disabled (values from 1-5)

	The 3D and 2D effects in revenant are scalable to different speeds of computers.
	If you are using a higher end computer, you will want all effects enabled,
	while if you are using an older computer, you may want to disable many of
	the more processor intensive effects to improve game speed.  The GAMESPEED
	option allows you to select the speed of your computer from 1-5 to
	turn off or on groups of game options that might cause the game to run too
	slowly.  A speed of 1 should be used for older machines such as non MMX
	Pentiumns below 200 Mhz, 2 or 3 should be used for MMX pentiums below 233 Mhz,
	and 3-4 should be used for Pentium II's below 266 Mhz.  5 should be used
	for 300Mhz pentium II's or above.  
	
	Note that the speed of your graphics accellerator will have a large effect on
	game speed, allowing slower systems to use higher GAMESPEED= values, while 
	faster systems with slower video cards may need to uses lower GAMESPEED= values.

DRIVER=drivername - Selects DirectX device
DEVICE=drivername - Selects DirectX device

	This option tells the game to use a specific DirectX device.  The game takes
	the keyword after the DEVICE= or DRIVER= option (i.e. DEVICE=BLASTER) and 
	checks if any DirectX device name or device description has that keyword in
	it.  If it does, it uses that device instead of the default device.  Typical
	keywords might be "DEVICE=3DFXV2" for the standard 3Dfx Voodoo II drivers, 
	or "DRIVER=viper" for the viper card.

	Note that this option should NOT be used in multi monitor systems (see
	MONITOR= option), and is only useful typically when a user has a 3D add
	on card such as the VooDoo based cards, or PowerVR cards.

	DEVICE= and DRIVER= are identical.

IGNORE3D - Runs games without any real time 3D

	Allows the game to be run on systems which do not have Direct3D.  Used by
	programmers to get the game to run on NT 4.0 without the service packs.

OLDDIRECT3D - Causes game to use only DirectX 3.0 functions

	Originally intended for NT 4.0 before we found the secret DirectX 5.0 
	NT drivers.  This option does not work correctly, and should not be used.

SOFTWARE3D - Causes the game to select software rendering

	This will cause the game to use a software renderer even if the user has a
	hardware accelerator in his machine.  Useful if the hardware does not
	support all of the features the game needs to run correctly.

RAMPMODE - Causes the software renderer to use MONO RAMP mode

RGBMODE - Causes the software renderer to use RGB mode (slower)

NODRAWPRIM - Causes the game to use execute buffers instead of Draw Primitive

	This option is no longer valid.  Do not use.

NOCACHEEXBUFS - Causes the execute buffer caching system to be disabled

	This option is no longer valid.  Do not use.

NOVIDZLOCK - Prevents the system from trying to simultaneously lock screen/zbuffers

	Voodoo cards do not allow both Z and Video buffers to be locked simultaneously.
	This option prevents this from happening, but slightly slows down the system.

	THIS OPTION IS ALSO ENABLED BY THE 'VOODOO' COMMAND LINE OPTION, SO
	DO NOT USE IT.

CLEARZ - Creates a separately accessible Z buffer which can be read by game.

	Voodoo cards do not allow you to read the values in the Z buffer.  This 
	option creates a separate clear z buffer which can be read, that is copied
	(when necessary) to the real z buffer on the video card.  This 'slightly'
	slows the game down (but the speed of the Voodoo more than makes up for
	this penalty).

	THIS OPTION IS ALSO ENABLED BY THE 'VOODOO' COMMAND LINE OPTION, SO
	DO NOT USE IT.

NOBLITZBUF - Prevents the game from attempting to HW blit to ZBuffer

	Voodoo cards pretty much don't allow you to do ANYTHING with the zbuffer,
	especially not hardware blitting.  This option prevents the game from
	attempting a hardware blit to the zbuffer.

VOODOO - Enables a group of options necessary to allow the game to use VOODOO cards

	This option enables NOVIDZLOCK, CLEARZ, and NOBLITZBUF.  Together these options
	allow support for VOODOO based cards.  Though each of these options comes
	with a minor performance hit, the increased rendering speed of the voodoo 
	cards more than makes up for these minor work arounds.

	In the future (DirectX 6), the game will be able to autodetect VOODOO based
	accelerators and enable these options automagically.

FASTLOCK=ON/OFF - Turns fastlocking "ON" or "OFF"

	Revenant uses a widely frowned upon technique for surface locking where a 
	surface is locked and unlocked immediately, then the pointer use used after
	the unlock.  This seems to work quite nicely for debugging, and also allows
	the system to have multithreaded access to system surfaces (allowing the
	update thread to work efficiently).  If the system seems to lock up for
	no explainable reason, try this flag.  This has never happened to us, but
	we've put this in just in case.

VIDEOCAP=bufsize,fps - Enables video capture

	Initializes a video capture buffer to allow game to capture gameplay to
	a sequence of BMP files.  'bufsize' is the size in megabytes of the video
	capture buffer (32 mb at 24 fps is about 4 seconds of video).  'fps' is the
	desired frames per second.  If this is left out, the video capture will
	default to 24 frames per second.  Video capture is started by pressing
	the Ctrl-Shift-V buttons in sequence, and stopped the same way.  The video
	capture system stores video as sequential .BMP files with the names
	'video000.bmp' where 000 is the frame number.  Each bmp file is about 900k,
	and they tend to soak up quite a bit of disk space when capture sessions
	go on too long.

NOMMX

	Tells system to not use MMX accellerated instructions and routines.  Lighting
	system is slower, but has somewhat better color when this is used.

VIOLENCELEVEL=x

	Indicates the violence level of the game from 1-5, where 1 is no violence or
	blood whatsoever, while 5 is a massive gorefest.
